/** Original sample passages for the fictional demo catalog. */
const openings = [
  'The first thing I noticed was the silence. Not the absence of sound, but the space it left for everything else: the light across the table, the book waiting at its edge, the small possibility of beginning again.',
  'The house had kept our heights on the kitchen door. Mine stopped at fourteen. My sister’s continued another inch in a different pencil, although she swore she had never come back.',
  'At the last station before the border, a woman boarded with an empty birdcage. She put it on the seat beside me and asked whether I minded the singing.',
  'The theatre would close on Sunday. On Monday, someone would paint over the green room, including the small constellation I had made with luminous paint in 1987.',
  'Rain was easy. Everyone on the island could predict rain. What made them nervous was the morning I predicted that the postman would finally forgive his brother.',
  'At four in the morning, the city belonged to us: the bakers, the cleaners, the people who unlocked the doors for people who never thought about locks.',
  'I began counting the things I owned on a Tuesday. By Wednesday, I had stopped. The more interesting inventory was of the things I actually noticed.',
  'The path was closed. This was the first good thing that happened that day, though I spent the next twenty minutes believing otherwise.',
  'There is a crack in the pavement outside my window. I have passed it for nine years. Today, for reasons I cannot explain, I saw a small fern growing inside it.',
  'A question can be a door or a wall. For years I mistook the second for the first, and wondered why every conversation left me in the same room.',
  'We measure a day in hours, which tells us very little about its shape. Some mornings are narrow corridors. Others are fields, open in every direction.',
  'The clock above the desk had stopped at eleven. I worked for an hour without noticing. It was the most useful hour I had spent that week.',
  'Place an ordinary spoon beside a stone. Wait until they stop being a spoon and a stone. Now look at the shapes they leave between them.',
  'The best object on the table was the one that did not quite work. A cardboard hinge had failed, revealing a possibility the finished model concealed.',
  'At eight, the window is a rectangle. By ten, it is a long pale road across the floor. At noon, it disappears. A room contains more than one room.',
  'A crease is a small decision with a long memory. Open the paper again and the decision remains, waiting to become something else.',
  'The first colour was not in the paint box. It was on the underside of a leaf I had stepped over on my way to buy paint.',
  'The chair had been repaired three times. Each repair used a different wood. Its owner called this damage. I called it a collaboration.',
  'Between the last word / and the closing door, / a whole afternoon / waits to be understood.',
  'At dusk, the field / stops being a place / and becomes the colour / of something remembered.',
  'The sea returns / a blue glass marble. / Of all the things I asked for, / it chooses this.',
  'A is for arrival: / rain at the window, / carrying the names / of places it has been.',
  'Let the edge be soft. / Let the cup be chipped. / Let the morning find us / unfinished, and here.',
  'Every open window / is a small agreement / with the world: / come in, begin again.'
];
export function excerptFor(sku: string) {
  const index = Number(sku.slice(3)) - 1;
  return openings[index] ?? openings[0];
}
